release notes for July 30th (#3828)
Azure/AKS: CHANGELOG.md

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2023-07-30

Monitor the release status by regions at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/).

### Announcements

* Windows 2019 will be retired in Kubernetes v1.33 and above (ETA March 2026). Customers should [upgrade to Windows 2022](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-windows-2019-2022).
* For AKS clusters built at version v1.27+ and enable KMS, KMS v2 is configured by default. However, for clusters with KMS enabled at versions below v1.27, upgrading to v1.27 will be blocked. To upgrade, follow the steps outlined in this [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-kms-etcd-encryption#migration-to-kms-v2) for migrating from KMS v1 to v2, and then proceed with upgrading the cluster to version v1.27.

> * The pod security policy feature was deprecated on 1st August 2023 and removed since AKS version 1.25. We recommend you migrate to [pod security admission controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-psa) to stay within Azure support.

Reviewer: The pod security policy was deprecated on 1st August 2023 and removed from AKS versions 1.25 and higher. We recommend you migrate to [pod security admission controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-psa)  or [Azure policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/aks/policy-reference) to stay within Azure support.

Reviewer 2: I like what you have here https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/azure-docs-pr/pull/246925/files#diff-12fcd4eb777ff069651013a27ab302be379cda1f07e09324f8e2b9d7f5fdf5cbR15

### Release notes

* Features
  * The [AKS Vscode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-kubernetes-tools.vscode-aks-tools) now supports [cluster creation](https://azure.github.io/vscode-aks-tools/features/show-properties-azureportal-start-stop.html).
  * [Kubernetes version 1.27](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.27.md#changelog-since-v1270) is now Generally Available (GA).

* Behavioral changes
  * Kubernetes version 1.24 is now deprecated.

>   * The nodereadiness-retry-interval has changed from 10s to 5s allowing for an earlier success response.

Reviewer 3: of success response of what? For what?

What behavioral change will this produce?

Author: @palma21 Faster retry intervals are a behavioral change of our product no?

* The pod security policy feature was deprecated on 1st August 2023 and removed since AKS version 1.25. We recommend you migrate to [pod security admission controller](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-psa) to stay within Azure support.

### Release notes

* Features
  * The [AKS Vscode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-kubernetes-tools.vscode-aks-tools) now supports [cluster creation](https://azure.github.io/vscode-aks-tools/features/show-properties-azureportal-start-stop.html).
  * Kubernetes version 1.27 is now Generally Available (GA).

* Behavioral changes
  * Kubernetes version 1.24 is now deprecated.
  * The nodereadiness-retry-interval has changed from 10s to 5s.
  * The nodereadiness-retry-max-count has changed from 5 to 12.

>   * Enable bpf-lb-sock-hostns-only option in Azure CNI Powered by Cilium for compatibility with Istio and other service meshes.

Reviewer 4: there's another RP side change required to get rid of the blocking logic we have for Istio and Cilium. that's gonna happen next week. so let's remove this line this week. we will cover Istio + cilium enable next week after that RP side change is done

# Azure Kubernetes Service Changelog

## Release 2023-07-30

Monitor the release status by regions at [AKS-Release-Tracker](https://releases.aks.azure.com/).

### Announcements

* Windows 2019 will be retired in Kubernetes v1.33 and above (ETA March 2026). Customers should [upgrade to Windows 2022](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/upgrade-windows-2019-2022).

> * Starting Kubernetes 1.25, the default cgroups implementation on AKS nodes will be cgroupsv2. Older versions of Java, .NET and NodeJS do not support memory querying v2 memory constraints and this will lead to out of memory (OOM) issues for workloads. Please test your applications for cgroupsv2 compliance, and read the [FAQ][https://learn.microsoft.com/troubleshoot/azure/azure-kubernetes/aks-increased-memory-usage-cgroup-v2] for cgroupsv2.

Reviewer 3: still? we're already in 1.27?

> * A [known issue](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/3718) in Kubernetes version 1.24 is causing name resolution failures in Windows pods. Customers experiencing this issue should upgrade their cluster to Kubernetes version 1.25.

Reviewer 3: 1.24 is deprecated?

> * CVE-2023-35945 has been found in Envoy Proxy (part of OSM and Istio).  We are rolling out a fix to all affected customers, please follow the [instructions](https://github.com/Azure/AKS/issues/3814) to monitor the rollout and restart your proxies.

Reviewer 3: Wasn't this fixed last week?

Reviewer 4: it was, we can remove this

* For AKS clusters built at version v1.27+ and enable KMS, KMS v2 is configured by default. However, for clusters with KMS enabled at versions below v1.27, upgrading to v1.27 will be blocked. To upgrade, follow the steps outlined in this [documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-kms-etcd-encryption#migration-to-kms-v2) for migrating from KMS v1 to v2, and then proceed with upgrading the cluster to version v1.27.

> 

Reviewer: Pls add:

The pod security policy feature was deprecated on 1st August 2023 and removed since AKS version 1.25. We recommend you migrate to [pod security admission controller](https://github.com/CocoWang-wql/azure-docs-pr/blob/patch-40/articles/aks/use-psa.md) to stay within Azure support.

### Release notes

* Features
  * The [AKS Vscode extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-kubernetes-tools.vscode-aks-tools) now supports [cluster creation](https://azure.github.io/vscode-aks-tools/features/show-properties-azureportal-start-stop.html).

>   * Kubernetes version 1.27 is now GA.

Reviewer 3: *Generally Available (GA).

>   * Kubernetes version 1.27 is now GA.

Reviewer 5: Consider providing the K8s link https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.27.md#v1270

>   * Kubernetes version 1.24 is now deprecated.

Reviewer 3: This is a behavior change? Maybe too nit picky, ok to have it her if it reads harder. But since it could be the first of the next section

* Behavioral changes

>   * The nodereadiness-retry-interval has changed from 10s to 5s.

Reviewer 3: What's the behavior change customers will see?

Author: @palma21It is improving our p99 during node pool update operations. The customer may see improved times. Let me know if I should take it out.

  * The nodereadiness-retry-max-count has changed from 5 to 12.

* Component Updates

>   * AKS Ubuntu 18.04 image has been updated to [AKSUbuntu-1804-202307.27.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-1804/202307.27.0.txt). 

Reviewer 3: 1.24 is deprecated?

Reviewer 3: Will we keep this?

Reviewer 3: I guess we should during platform support, carry on

  * AKS Ubuntu 22.04 image has been updated to [AKSUbuntu-2204-202307.27.0](vhd-notes/aks-ubuntu/AKSUbuntu-2204/202307.27.0.txt).
  * Azure Linux image has been updated to [AzureLinux-202307.27.0](vhd-notes/AzureLinux/202307.27.0.txt).

>   * Updated Azure Service Mesh charts to [v1.17.5](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.17.x/announcing-1.17.5/).

Reviewer 3: This is not the official name? @shashankbarsin  ??
Have we used this more times?

Reviewer 4: that's correct, this is not the official name and we haven't used it elsewhere

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Istio-based service mesh add-on's istiod and ingress images updated to v1.17.5. User needs to restart the workload pods to trigger re-injection of the newer patch version of istio-proxy. More information can be found [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/aks/istio-upgrade).
```

>   * Updated Windows Azure CNI to v1.5.6.

Reviewer 3: Notes? If it's not in the PR let the dev know
https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.6

Confirm this is right last time, this seemed to not align.

>   * Updated Azure Container Networking for Windows to [pv1.5.5](https://github.com/Azure/azure-container-networking/releases/tag/v1.5.5).

Reviewer 4: the line above says 1.5.6 and this line mentions 1.5.5. which one is it getting updated to?

>   * Updated microsoft-defender-pod-collector image to 1.0.73

Reviewer 3: Patch change? Anything from the notes? We should tell the partner to provide something where possible.
